docs/samples/sas-samples.md, before:

# Sample SAS Programs

These SAS programs provide examples of how the SAS macros in this repository can be used: 

## metacodaExtIdExtractSample.sas

Extracts SAS ExternalIdentity metadata used to link SAS identities (users and groups) with their
equivalent external identities, such as users and groups in Microsoft Active Directory.

See <https://github.com/Metacoda/idsync-utils/blob/master/samples/metacodaExtIdExtractSample.sas>

## metacodaExtIdUpdateSample.sas

Updates SAS ExternalIdentity metadata where there may be a requirement to remap/recode the
identifiers that connect SAS identities with their equivalent externally synchronised users and
groups.

See <https://github.com/Metacoda/idsync-utils/blob/master/samples/metacodaExtIdUpdateSample.sas>
 
## metacodaPersonExtractSample.sas

Extracts basic attributes for Person (user) objects in SAS metadata..

See <https://github.com/Metacoda/idsync-utils/blob/master/samples/metacodaPersonExtractSample.sas>

## metacodaXMLEncodeSample.sas

A simple example of encoding text strings for use XML files/streams (such as SAS PROC METADATA).

See <https://github.com/Metacoda/idsync-utils/blob/master/samples/metacodaXMLEncodeSample.sas>

Commit message:

Added metacodaIdentityGroupExtract macro, sample and doc.

docs/samples/sas-samples.md, after:

# Sample SAS Programs

These SAS programs provide examples of how the SAS macros in this repository can be used: 

## metacodaExtIdExtractSample.sas

Extracts SAS ExternalIdentity metadata used to link SAS identities (users and groups) with their
equivalent external identities, such as users and groups in Microsoft Active Directory.

See <https://github.com/Metacoda/idsync-utils/blob/master/samples/metacodaExtIdExtractSample.sas>

## metacodaExtIdUpdateSample.sas

Updates SAS ExternalIdentity metadata where there may be a requirement to remap/recode the
identifiers that connect SAS identities with their equivalent externally synchronised users and
groups.

See <https://github.com/Metacoda/idsync-utils/blob/master/samples/metacodaExtIdUpdateSample.sas>
 
## metacodaIdentityGroupExtractSample.sas

Extracts basic attributes for IdentityGroup (group and role) objects in SAS metadata..

See <https://github.com/Metacoda/idsync-utils/blob/master/samples/metacodaIdentityGroupExtractSample.sas>

## metacodaPersonExtractSample.sas

Extracts basic attributes for Person (user) objects in SAS metadata..

See <https://github.com/Metacoda/idsync-utils/blob/master/samples/metacodaPersonExtractSample.sas>

## metacodaXMLEncodeSample.sas

A simple example of encoding text strings for use XML files/streams (such as SAS PROC METADATA).

See <https://github.com/Metacoda/idsync-utils/blob/master/samples/metacodaXMLEncodeSample.sas>
